yo friends what's up if you already
didn't know SW 5 introduces a new
reactivity system called runes so you
can declare a piece of state by saying
dollar sign State and you can then pass
a value we also have the right value so
you can pass in a simple expression to
dollar sign derived so we can say a * 2
and that's basically how simple this is
but today I wanted to actually dive
deeper and look into how signals
actually work in so when should you
derive value and when you should not
because you can do a lot of interesting
things with derives but you can also do
some convol the things if you don't know
how they work all right but before I get
started here's a message from our
sponsor I'd like to thank this video
sponsor you the viewer you can support
the channel through patreon or a YouTube
channel membership members get early
access to videos help shape the content
and a special Discord rule you can find
all of the links in the description
thank you for your
support all right but how does this
actually work let's get a higher level
understanding of signals first and first
let's actually create a button because
right now this isn't even reactive it
only becomes reactive when we write to
the signal so this is going to get
created into a signal if we assign to
the signal itself and then we can also
read the derive and this is the only
time deres run is when you read from
them so now we can save this and we're
going to see it works as expected so now
let's actually go here to the sources to
understand how this works I can actually
find this file output here and you can
see there's a lot of things here where
we can ignore most of it there's only
three parts to signals right the signal
itself the arrives or computed and
effects so let's look how this works so
here swel declares a and then it creates
a signal from it it names it Source but
the name is really not important this is
a signal and a signal is just a normal
object with subscribers and some other
things on it and then it creates this
der here which is also a signal but it's
also a function as you can see it always
gets turned into a function but by
default it takes a simple expression
just so you don't have to declare a
function each time and then you can see
it reads the signal which is really
important so let's actually understand
how this works so here we can it created
the template effect because we used the
double signal or B in our template right
and this is just a do helper to set the
text it says set text it passes the text
and this is the important part reading
the signal so first is going to run this
function and it's going to get added to
the context and then when we read the
signal inside of it we're going to check
hey if there's anything in the context
okay that's what's calling me that's the
function I'm going to add to my
subscribers and the same thing is going
to happen when you go back to the drive
we're going to run this function you're
going to push it into the context then
when we read the signal inside of it
we're going to be like okay who is
calling me is there anyone in the
context ah okay this function is in the
context I'm going to add it to my
subscribers and then you can see here at
the top where you have on click when we
set the value so we can say set we pass
in the signal and then we pass the set
value or whatever we do to update the
value we say do get we always get the
freshest value and then we pass plus one
and the reason we pass a signal because
we're going to probably say a do value
or whatever is on that object and we're
going to update it and then we're going
to notify all of the subscribers which
are just this function right and this is
going to run all of the subscribers and
that's basically how signals work it's
really simple and let me also show you
something cool if you watch my previous
video on signals and reactivity in swel
you probably remember deeply objectivity
and this is really what happens when you
pass an object or array you can say
value and let's see now we have a do
value and we have to update this and
this gets turned into a proxy under the
hood you can see it works the same but
now when we go here to the updated code
you can see this is actually a proxy
under the hood so whenever we update the
value or whatever it can trap those
values and do whatever it wants and this
allows some amazing things like in the
past in Sp we couldn't for example just
push things to array or Etc let's say
that array let's say that a was an array
so we had to reassign it like this we
had to say a equals then we had to
spread the entire thing or whatever and
then we can add the new value but in SW
five you can just say a push item or
whatever else you want is just going to
work because it uses proxies under the
hood and this also allows for some other
cool things for example you can export
from uh do swell. TS or JS file you can
export something and it's going to
become Global State because this is a
proxy under the hood otherwise felt
wouldn't know if this was just a regular
variable or if this was a signal right
but yeah that's basically it let me just
go back to default state so we can
continue awesome how beautiful is this
R okay so let's learn more about the D
so remember how this always gets turned
into a function well if you actually
need to use a function for something
more complicated you can use derived by
and these two examples are equivalent so
this does really the same thing nothing
special right so you can see it works as
expected and you can even for example
return whatever you want so let's just
go here and then we can return maybe we
want the double value you can just say a
* 2 and maybe you want also to include
qu druple a * 4 we can save and now we
get this beautiful object object how
beautiful is that friends now we can say
here B doble let's just copy over the
button and then we can say quadruple and
you're going to see these values are
going to be in sync how beautiful is
this friends all right so now the things
that you can do that I really
discouraged so this really isn't
anything more special than just a
regular functions and what are you
always thought by those functional
programmers bro that you shouldn't do so
for example here we have this function t
or whatever and then we have some value
outside like I don't know let's the
these nuts okay so we can just go here
and what are you always discouraged by
doing well you always discourage by
doing side effects so you're doing
something outside of the function you're
saying the math random or whatever and
this is also what you should avoid doing
when you're using the r because you can
run into some nasty problems and
thankfully the swell compiler is
Advanced enough that he can warn you
about this for example let's say you
want to modify our signal we want to say
10 we're actually going to save this and
boom now we're going to get a nasty
error is going going to say State on
safe mutation updating State inside the
deriv is forbidden I do not condone it
okay so now we can actually remove this
but actually we are human so we're
smarter than the machines for now so
actually we can get around this quite
easily we can just return a function
from here and let's just use a getter
for lul why not we can actually say get
value and then we can assign here let's
just return whatever let's return a self
right and inside of here we can actually
set a to 10 which is really disastrous
right so now I can refresh this and I
don't get any warning and now inside of
here I can just say
B value boom now we have this getter and
boom now we can run into some weird
problems and you're going to maybe be
tempted to do some of these convoluted
things but don't just remember in
derives you should just read the value
don't write to values don't write to
external state or whatever maybe you're
like tempted by this maybe like okay
since now here I'm inside this function
uh 200 IQ now I can maybe uh from here I
can write to local storage each time
this updates oh my God I'm so smart I'm
going to do this all the time but no
don't do this just use this derive to
derive values right just reach from them
don't write to things if you can avoid
it right maybe you can use just a
regular effect outside of here you can
say effect here and then you can just
write to local storage maybe if the
value updated because whatever you pass
to effect here like value or whatever is
going to run so for example let me just
say console log and what do we have we
have a here and let me just remove this
so I don't look at it we can just say b
boom what did we say double right okay
cool so now we're going to see if we
refresh this let's see oh I left this
in okay cool let's see if I refr this
boom now we're going to actually see
that our effect runs here because the
value of a updated and there's even
other things you can do so for example
maybe you would run into an infinite
Loop if for example a was an array so
you say a push and then you push another
reactive value and then you would get
into trouble but SW actually has this
thing it's called un track and again
this is a really more advanced example
you don't have to do this for example on
track let's see if it's going to import
it it's really not important it's just
really a regular input and then you just
pass in a call back and these values
aren't going to be reactive anymore just
do this it's being really annoying okay
fantastic yeah you can do something like
this boom and then you can just use the
Valu that you want to make this run
right so for example you would say if B
and this would make it like reactive and
then you wouldn't run into an infinite
Loop because now a inside of effect
isn't reactive and you can just run this
whenever B updates but there's also
other better ways of doing this which
I'm going to show you in this video
right oh and another problem that I want
to show you so for example here we had
dot value and you can do all sort of
nonsense here you can even have effects
inside of this and you can run into some
problems if you try and do that right
you might want to run some things I
already said don't use effects inside of
here and do that sort of things just
should use a regular effect outside or
the other methods I'm going to show you
later but another problem that you can
run if you're doing some logic inside of
here you're like okay I'm going to keep
some State here for example let count
I'm going to have a account boom now I
have this closure I'm so cool I'm down
with the kids now I have this closure
okay boom this is easy peasy 11 squeeze
it like this now I going to increment
count oh I can just return count okay
let's rename value to count oh my God
I'm a hacker oh this is so good this is
so good oh so good okay so now we I'm so
sorry okay so now we can go here in a
template let's just use B count and now
actually that we have here let's just
return a so this runs
right and cool now when we run this
we're actually going to see count is
going to increment so now we're using
closure to have some State inside but
what is actually the problem with this
now the problem with this is if you have
let's see and you want to do some other
derived thing well now when you use b.
count you're like okay I'm so smart so
now when this Updates this is going to
update and then you're like Charlie from
always Sun you have that bow of v on
board and you're just getting into a
disaster right so you'll say Okay B
count times two well now a problem with
this is when you run this let me just
put this in effect so now when you run
this you're going to run this logic
you're going to run into a problem well
in this case maybe you want to incr
account but let's say that you want to
modify some state or Etc from inside of
here now you're already starting to do
some convoluted things and this is going
to get you into trouble this is why you
should always read values and never
write to values when using thees all I
hope this makes sense okay so let's
actually bring this back to Baseline so
we can talk about more sexy things like
micro tasq and Etc oh my God I'm so
excited about okay so let's just go
here I wasn't joking okay so let's just
go here and then boom bam thank you
ma'am everything is going to work the
same as before but one thing that I want
to mention is why you should never use
effects to write to Value so for example
this is perfectly fine if you have an
effect here and then maybe you're
retrieving some value from local storage
so you're saying local storage get item
boom assign it to whatever you want when
the component on this is perfectly fine
but in general you should avoid using
effects to sync values and this is why
we have derives so you're going to
actually have to rarely use effects
unless you're doing side effects right
but let me actually show you why this is
really a bad idea for example I'm going
to to create
State that's it and let's say that
instead of the right I'm saying b equals
a * 2 and you're actually going to see
you're like what are you talking about
this looks good to me ship it and I say
hold on wait right there I'm going to
call the police on you because let me
actually show you where this is a really
bad idea and to understand why this
works so here if you even go to the
swell dogs here we have this example and
they even tell you to don't use effects
but they don't really explain why you
shouldn't do this so let me explain it
so the thing that's going to happen here
well let me just take this we're going
to create an increment function let's
just go here let's just say function
increment
boom and boom we can just use increment
here it works the same as before nothing
special right
here okay so like I updated my state let
me just do something else with the
freshest value of my state right wrong
you absolute fool now we can go here and
now I'm going to activate my trap card
inside this console log I'm going to log
ab and now you're going to see something
interesting okay so let's log it 1 2 3 4
what is this my state is out of sync God
damn it I'm in shambles right now what
is going on what is this toy language
JavaScript what is going on here okay so
you're going to see your state is AO
seeing and why is that well because
effects always run last when all of your
logic is done when you pop that precious
stack in the event Loop or whatever the
name of it is then your effect is going
to run and let me actually explain how
this works so in JavaScript or in the
browser there's this concept of a queue
microt Tas so you can actually cue
things that you want to do last when you
do all of your work so this is more
efficient for things it's really not
important it's actually literally called
q
microtest and I even found a cool
graphic that explains how this works so
actually this is how it works let me
just enlarge this and Hance boom so now
we're going to see the microtas Q so
this is your Q microtas acing promises
whatever and you have your things like
timeouts intervals and Etc on your micro
testq it's really not important so this
is the event Lo so you're going to see
when your stack is empty only then the
microtest Q is going to run and what is
on the micr test Q it's Q micras right
only then your effect is going to run
when it's too late and this is why you
run into that problem so so this is why
you shouldn't or you should never use
effects to synchronize State unless you
have to right and for that reason I'm
out okay so you can say the right and
you can say a * 2 boom easy peasy lemon
squeeze it like that friends let me just
see 1 2 3 four now we going to see your
state is going to work expected because
again we learn how signals work under
hood so this is happening real time once
you update the value you have always the
freshest value which is really the
advantage of signals compared to the
previous version of sale because you can
always be sure that the value is going
to be the latest all right so never use
effects to synchronize State use thees
instead all right so let's talk about
something really important when it comes
to the Rives so you might have noticed
this yourself and playing around with
them let's actually rever to how we had
this before instead of increment let's
just past this inside of a
function okay boom easy peasy L squeezy
now we get the same result how beautiful
is this friends all right but you might
have noticed something we actually don't
need derived to derived values so for
example we can come here and instead of
derived we can just pass in a regular
function we can say a * 2 and now inide
here we save we're going to get this
function body but we have to invoke it
using the function and you're going to
see it almost looks the same well first
the DX or the developer experience is
significantly worse because now you have
to invoke this function so it looks more
ugly right but functionally it looks the
same right and because we understand how
signals work we know that under the hood
this is just G a or whatever SW does
right so we actually know that the ride
really isn't this magical special
keyword that can be only used for
computing values we learned the other
benefits of the ride like in quotes
caching because it just assigned to this
value and obviously this is just a
function this is just a blueprint for
what should happen right so for example
if we have a here and then let's just
say that we have B here and I'm going to
leave it let's say for example that you
have a bunch of bees here right they're
complete bees right so we can just
increment this value so this is Trivial
of course this is just a really simple
example and we thinking okay so what is
the point of this why is this bad right
well you're running let's say this is
something more precious on Computer
Resources right you're doing this each
time you invoke B compared to using
derived right so for example if I
comment this out I enable derived and
let's just remove this function body so
let's just think about this logically
when we update this value we only update
it once here and then the rest of the
work that spel has to do is just update
this in the Dom that's it there is
really no computation going on here
right it doesn't really how many times
it is it's 1 2 3 4 5 six seven right so
seven times we had to do the same thing
and this really isn't bad when you have
some simple things right and of course
this is really simple we don't even need
a derived here we can just say a * 2 we
can just use the Expression as is in the
template but when you have more
complicated things
like a cart or whatever you're telling
out the numbers and Etc then it really
makes a lot of sense to use a dve right
and this is really important and if
you're thinking okay maybe there's some
penalty or performance keit when I'm
using the drive just stop don't worry
about it you can just use it for
everything you're not going to run into
problems but again if you don't want to
use the ride if you have something
simple for example maybe you have like
items you have an array one two three
four and now when this array updates
whatever you can just say
items length you're not going to go
through the extra efforts unless you
want to of course uh for example
remaining and then you're going to say
derived items length I mean this
wouldn't make that much sense right
you're just wasting space right you can
just say items don't link whenever this
value updates here is going to update in
a template in this case it's perfectly
fine so yeah basically that's why you
should just always use derived if you
can there's really no performance
penalty for it all right now that we we
know the fundamentals we can gain a
deeper understanding and appreciation of
how signals work by looking at a naive
implementation of signals so inside of
here this has nothing to do with s i
just created a basic signals
implementation just using regular
JavaScript right this is how all of
these JavaScript remor work that
Implement signals so you always have a
signal in this case is named Source
after s and then signals are nothing
without the effects and this is called a
root effect template effect it's really
not important in fact your entire swell
component is wrapped in a root effect so
it's Dynamic and in this case I'm just
going to say console log and then we can
just use this function get and then we
can always get the value and I'm going
to go to/ signals and you can see it's
going to log zero all right so now we
can use the set method we can pass in
the signal that we want to change and we
can then pass the updated value so one
two in this case and you're going to see
if I refresh it's always going to log
these values so let's actually see how
this looks like so now we can actually
see just creating the signal is nothing
this is just an object it returns a
value and subscription so this is
basically useless but here it is here is
the magic secret Source we run the
effect first and what happens when you
run the effect it accepts a function we
set the context to that function right
here right so we set it right here then
we run the function and then we reset
the context and what is the function
well inside of the function we read the
signal and what happens when you read
the signal well magic my friends so
inside of here where we pass the signal
or Source we check hey if there's a
current context oh okay that's what's
calling us right so we can add this to
the subscriptions that's basically how
easy peasy lemon squeezy that is friends
and then we just return the value and
now when we set the value of the signal
we just run the subscription which are
just functions in this case but it's a
lot more complicated when implemented
for real right this is really naive and
this is basically it this is the magic
of signals let me show you a more
advanced example just to say on typing I
have this in my clipboard so I'm going
to save this and again I have this
button example let's refresh for good
measure when we increment the count it
works the same as before and this output
looks really familiar right so let's
pretend that this is our brand new
JavaScript framework banana JS or
whatever so we create this button we
assign it on click let's get back to
this in a second so we just append it to
the body right and then we Define our
signal here we have a derve which you're
going to look into how it works in a
second and this is the most important
part this effect right so we're going to
update the Dom by reading the signal
right this is going to get added to the
subscriptions we can actually see that
we can just use this regular set method
we pass in the signal that we want to
change and then we just pass the
Callback expression whatever you want to
update the value because we always want
to get the freshest value and then
whatever you want to do with it right
and deres are also really interesting
because they're also signals and effects
so let's see how a deriv works so again
this is the same as an effect right
we're passing a function to this thing
right the right so let's see how it
works so here we have a function then we
create a signal Source right and then we
pass it to the fact we say set signal
and we pass the function right and then
we just return it that's it and this is
going to rerun this function each time
it updates its subscribers and that's
basically it that's how signals work all
right the rides are super cool but
there's one drawback to using them and
that is that you can't use them to bind
values because the Rives are read only
so let's go together through the example
from the swell dos I'm going to just
copy over this example and the first
thing is they use this as the first
example to tell you hey don't use
effects to synchronize State remember
what we learned about before you
shouldn't use effects for this but let
me actually just save this to show you
what we working with so we actually want
to synchronize this spent and left when
one of the values changes and for
example if we wanted to change state to
derived so let's see spent is total
minus left and then we have left which
is total minus pent and that is really
great but if we try this and save this
you're going to get an error and we can
see cannot bind to theive State all
right so how can we actually synchronize
State well that is really simple we have
two methods we can just use regular
functions and I'm going to show you how
you can create a variable derived if you
need it so actually let me just revert
this what it was before boom awesome all
right so what did we learn we don't want
to use effects cool so we can just use
regular functions and let's go back to
the SW dos here they have an example so
easy peasy lemon squeezy we can just use
a regular function update spent we're
going to accept event spent is going to
be a number e Target value and then we
can say that left is total spent that's
it now we can copy over this
function and we can say update left and
in this case we're just going to update
this to be let's see e
Target value and then we can just have
this pen to be
minus left and now we can update this
instead of binding the value we can just
assign the value to spend and we can say
on
input update what spent right boom easy
peasy lemon squeezy like that friends
again you don't really have to over
complicate these things you can just use
the simplest thing
possible and then you can say update
left
boom so now we can see that we can
synchronize this value and that is how
easy peasy l squeezy it that is friends
but of course we can also do something
else we can create a variable derived so
if we can go here to the docs again and
this is really simple we can just create
an object with a getter and Setter so
let's actually use their example right
so this is really simple if you want to
do something like this if you really
need to bind the value or if you just
prefer this right there is no right or
wrong just don't use the effect right
okay and in this case total is not
reactive righted so we can leave this
the same and then we're only going to
have spent which is going to be the
state and now instead of left we're
going to create a writable derived okay
so let's do this using the example from
the docs we can say let left and we can
just use a getter and
Setter and we can say whenever we read
this value we can return total minus
spent boom and then when we update this
value we can just assign spent to be
total minus the new value that we passed
in so this is the new value or whatever
you want to call right that is how
Getters and Setters work and that's
basically it now this is in my opinion
simpler but that really depends on you
what you want to do if you put this
neatly in a function or class you can do
the same thing and now we don't need
input we can again just bind
this and we can just remove on input
let's bind the
value let's save everything and again
the only important thing here right now
is because we're using getter and set we
have to say do value right so here where
we have left we're going to use this
object we have to say dot value because
we're receiving and setting the value
and then we can say here left do value
boom let's save this and now this should
be easy peasy lemon squeezy friends
let's see if it works a how beautiful is
this friends right all right let me show
you something crazy but let's just keep
this between us and don't tell anyone
else about this okay so let's just
create this script trust me this is
going to be worth it so let's say that
we have Celsius we want to convert these
temperatures right and we have the
freedom
unit okay so for example now we have
Celsius we can say type
number and then we can say bind
value Celsius let me just repeat this
for
Fahrenheit beautiful everything works as
expected okay how do I synchronize these
two values and of course we learned from
before that you can just use regular
functions but that's boring to be honest
let me show you something truly insane
that I'm not even sure was intended but
you can do it all right so remember what
I told you when you pass an object to
this thing that it becomes a proxy under
the hood well it's just an object so we
can use a getter and Setter on it right
all right so now in this case let's
actually create a private value because
we can't use things on the class like B
sign so let's just make it private and
then we can just specify get there in a
set oh my God please don't report me to
the police I swear I'm innocent so what
we want to do when we read the value
well of course we just want to return
this do value and what we want to do
when we set the value well of course we
want to update Fahrenheit and we want to
update this value also so now we can go
here we can say this value value and we
can also
say Fahrenheit is going to to be also
value and we're going to set it to the
new value so we're going to do the same
thing here let me just copy over this
code oh God forgive me all right so
let's see we're going to do the same
thing for Celsius
right let's actually do this and again
remember because now we're choosing an
object we have to say celsius. value and
we have to say fahrenheit. value all
right so now let's see if this works and
the values seem to be synchronized but
we actually have to use the formula so
it's the new value is going to be time 9
and then we're going to divide it by 5
plus 32 all right and the formula for
converting Fahrenheit to Celsius we just
going to say the new value minus 32 and
we're going to divide it by 9 / by 5 all
right cool so let's actually see this
works 100 is in fire height 212 that
looks right to me and these values are
now synchronize how beautiful is this
friend so let's see does it work yep how
beautiful is this friend all right but
here is something more serious that you
would do you can use a function or you
can create a class we can say
temperature all right cool now on this
class we can actually specify these two
things we can say
Celsius we can use State very easily and
the best part is that spel is going to
turn these values into a getter and
Setter under the hood and you can even
specify your own if you want complete
control and I'm actually going to copy
this name because I'm
insecure all right cool so now actually
instead of letting SW take over and
create the gets and Setters we can just
create them ourselves right so we can
just say get Celsius not celius Celsius
and then we can do the same thing copy
this over we can say set what do we want
to do and let's also make them private
otherwise we're going to reference them
and run into issues right so we can do
this and then we can return this do
Celsius easy peasy lemon squeezy and
then we're going to actually do the same
thing that we done here right so
whenever we update this value of Celsius
we actually want to set it so we can say
this Celsius equals new value and again
we can update
Fahrenheit this Fahrenheit equals the
new value easy peasy L squeezy like that
classes are really cool but of course
you don't have to use classes if you
really one of those people the hate
classes just use a function you can do
the same thing you can instead of
Getters and Setters you can use
functions but then the user experience
is a bit worse right and again I'm going
to just copy over
this get
Fahrenheit flip this actually we could
keep it the same but whatever and we
need to return fire right here all right
cool so this looks great to me let's
just remove this since we don't need it
again don't tell anyone about this so
you would have this in other file
whatever you can just reuse this and
yeah basically we can just say
const
temperature new
temperature and now we can just say
temperature
Celsius and
temperature fire height boom let's see
here we have a problem yeah because I
can't
type awesome let me just refresh for
good measure and now let's see and oh
didn't even use the formula okay we can
do this friends I got this 3 * 9 and we
can say 5 +
42 and for Fahrenheit we can say vus 32
/ by 9 / 5 all right cool let's save
this and see if it works how beautiful
is this
friend okay and now if we say 212 we get
the same value so this is actually
something that you would do for real
right instead of this meme right but of
course I have no idea what you're
talking about all right so don't add me
all right wow that was a lot but there's
one more example that I want to show you
and it's really more about keeping
things simple and how you can easily
over complicate things and it's also
going to show one more cool thing about
theives so let me actually start over
I'm going to create a new script tag and
let's say that we want to flip a coin
and that we want to store the history so
first we can can store the side you can
say
State and that's basically it and now we
can also say history for example and
this is really simple right now we can
also create a function
flip and we can reassign this we can say
MEF random if it's below 05 then let's
just return heads or we can say
tails and of course the simple thing to
do is
push let's create the button we're going
to Output the side and if it has no
value we're going to say flip for on
click we're just going to say flip and
then let's just create a
history and let's do it like this all
right cool and let's actually see what's
going on so maybe reduce the size but
basically that's it right we can just do
this and it's really simple but it's
really easy to do something convoluted
so for example of course this is a
simple example maybe in of here you have
derived and you're doing maybe something
else and it's really easy to be tempted
to be like oh since I'm inside of this
thing and this thing reruns when this
other thing reruns oh I can keep some
other state inside of here right this is
how we get into this silly situation so
for example let's say that we use this
for history again if we keep State
inside and we can of course use closures
let's just say get value and then we can
say history push whenever site updates
and then we're also going to return
history and in this case let me just say
history do value boom and of course this
might look okay right but there's
actually a couple of problems is first
we seeing what happens if we just return
a value that assigns some State now if
you want to derive something from this
you're going to run into trouble right
the next problem you're going to run
into is that derives are lazy they only
update when their value updates and
again here we have MEF random if it's
low .5 is going to return heads or tails
but what if it Returns the same value
multiple times in a row this thing isn't
going to run right and let's actually
see this so we can say console log so
I'm going to say
flip and then we can also output the
value let's do the same console log
inside here and then we can say derived
all right so now the first one is going
to be undefined because there's nothing
in let me just refresh this okay so now
let's flip the first value so now we get
the console log from flip heads derived
head so let's see oh so now we only get
heads again right so now only this
function ran right this is the problem
you're going to run into if you try
using the rise like this they aren't
like some magical dependency array
that's always going to rerun when you're
value updates and this is what makes
signals awesome because they're not
wasteful they're only going to rerun
when the value updates as you can see if
we roll more we got heads three times in
a row or four right and then it's now
going to update and as said if you ever
get into a situation like this just do
something simple you can update
everything inside this flip function
right all right we can also move this
inside of a function so we don't need
this anymore let's create a coin class
we're going to specify a side so let's
define some State we're going to have a
history so let's define the array we
don't need a Constructor and we can just
move this function in that's
it remove this I'm going to say this
side
we can also remove this let's say this
history and we're going to push in the
new state and now we can create it so we
can say on
coin new
coin coin site and coin
history have to use the value anymore
and you're going to notice one thing is
that this isn't going to work because
this property is undefined and that is
because when you use this method like
this is going to point to the
button so you can just pass an arrow
function and you can invoke
it so you can do this and everything is
going to work alternatively you can just
remove
this and you can just make this into an
arrow function and this is just
basically how the this keyword works it
depends on the execution context right
and if you remember the goodle days over
react you can even do something like
this in the Constructor so this flip you
you can say this flip bind the dis key
right so you could do also something
like this again you don't have to use
classes you can use functions or
whatever else you want but yeah that's
pretty cool in my opinion and of course
you have to decide yourself do I need
actually the say because for example
let's say that you maybe want to
calculate the percentages of heads
compared to Tails you can just say
heads State same for Tails right you can
just tail it up you don't need to do
some comp at derived here right you have
all of this here available right so you
can just say if this side heads then you
can do whatever you want inside of here
and this is really simple compared to
using aive but of course you can use a
derive just ask yourself do you need to
right and how beautiful is this friends
right we don't need to do anything else
let's just see can we flip it yeah nice
we can flip it good right and we don't
run into the same problem when we use a
ride right so when it's lazy this is
going to update every time and if you
want to do something more complicated of
course you can always Define the getter
and Setter yourself that's basically it
I hope you learn something and if you
like what You' seen don't forget to like
And subscribe thank you for watching and
catch you in the next one peace